\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename correctpony.info
@settitle correctpony
@afourpaper
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@finalout
@c %**end of header


@c @defindex op
@c @synindex op vr
@c @synindex cp pg


@copying
This manual is for correctpony.

Copyright @copyright{} 2012, 2013 Mattias Andrée

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top correctpony
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title correctpony 1.3
@subtitle The perfect a passphrase generator.
@author Mattias Andrée, maandree@@member.fsf.org
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@page
@*@*
Though 20 years of effort we have successfully trained everypony to use@*
passwords that are hard for ponies to remember, but easy for robots to guess.
@end titlepage

@contents


@menu
* Overview::                          Overview of correctpony
* Invoking::                          Running of correctpony
* License of correctpony::            The license of correctpony
* GNU Free Documentation License::    GNU Free Documentation License
* Concept index::                     Concept index
@end menu



@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@cindex overview
@cindex description

correctpony is a passphrase generator based on @url{http://xkcd.com/936/} and
@url{http://www.baekdal.com/insights/password-security-usability}.

correctpony generates a phrase with real words, making it easy to remember
but hard to brute force. But the strenghten your security you may want to
do an entroy check on the phrase, it should be enought to just read the phrase
and make sure no close pairs is a common combination in read text. And if you
are paranoid do one or two simple modifications to the generated phrase.


@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking
@cindex invoking
@cindex arguments
@cindex options
@cindex executing
@cindex running
@cindex count, passphrases
@cindex passphrases, count
@cindex security
@cindex statistics
@cindex @command{correctpony-security}

The format for running the @command{correctpony} program is:

@example
@command{correctpony} [@var{option}...] [@var{count}]
@end example

The default value for @var{count} is 1, this values indicates
how many passphrases are generates, each on a separate line.

@command{correctpony} recognises the following options.

@table @option
@item -h
@itemx --help
Print this help table and exit.

@item -v
@itemx --version
Print version and exit.

@item -p
@itemx --nocolour
Do not colour the words in the passphrase output.

@item -j
@itemx --join
Join all words.

@item -i
@itemx --include @emph{word}
Include @emph{word} in passphrase.

@item -l
@itemx --list @emph{list}
Wse wordlist @emph{list}. Must be either absolute path or path
relative to /usr/share/correctpony (with default installation settings).
Max 100 wordlists can be specified; if omitted, the default wordlist
@file{english} will be used.

@item -c
@itemx --char @emph{n=12}
The passphrase must be at least @emph{n} characters long.

@item -w
@itemx --words @emph{n=4}
The passphrase must consist of @emph{n} words.

@item -s
@itemx --sep @emph{char=' '}
Use @emph{char} as separator between words.

@item -u
@itemx --camelcase
Capitalise first letter of each word.

@end table

In addition to @command{correctpony}, you have the command
@command{correctpony-security}. It is a simple shell script
that some security information about using @command{correctpony}
bases on your wordlists and some practices.
@command{correctpony-security} ignores stdin and arguments.



@node License of correctpony
@appendix License of correctpony

@flushleft
correctpony — a passphrase generator inspired by @url{http://xkcd.com/936/}
Copyright @copyright{} 2012, 2013  Mattias Andrée (maandree@@member.fsf.org)

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end flushleft

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texinfo

@node Concept index
@appendix Concept index
@printindex cp

@c @node Concept and program index
@c @appendix Concept and program index
@c @printindex pg

@c @node Variable and option index
@c @appendix Variable and option index
@c @printindex vr


@bye

